DOC: Hub reporting for beta1 (#1405)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/specialized-guides/pages/large-deployments/hub-reporting.adoc

[[lsd-hub-reporting]]
= Hub Reporting
The Hub prepares and provides content for multiple peripheral {productname} Servers. The goal is now to get data from these Servers back and have combined reporting data available on the Hub.

> The data are made available for external Reporting Tools.

Reviewer: When I use here  "View file" I cannot see this paragraph.

== Architecture
The main database is a PostgresDB in the {productname} Hub system.  It stores all the information collected from all the servers, and eventually aggregates them. 
Other databases with the same schema are also present in all the servers, to collect information for that system. In summary:

- the DB in {productname} Hub stores, collects and eventually aggregates data coming from all the DBs of the peripheral Servers,

> - the DB in {productname} Hub stores also its own data 
> - data from the systems directly connected and managed by the Hub,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the DB in {productname} Hub stores also its own data from the systems directly connected and managed by the Hub,
```

- the DB in peripheral {productname} Server stores its own data,
- the reporting tool can be connected either to the Hub or to any {productname} Server.

== Setup

> Database and schema are setup by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reporting database and schema are setup by default using the local postgresql server.
The reporting database is a separate database accessible via the network.
```

=== Create a DB user for the reporting

Before connecting an external Reporting Tools to the Database, a user with read-only permission should be created.
For doing that, it is possible to use ``uyuni-setup-reportdb-user`` .

----
usage: uyuni-setup-reportdb-user [options]

options:
  --help 
            show this help message and exit
  --non-interactive
            Switches to non-interactive mode
  --dbuser=DBUSER
            Report DB User
  --dbpassword=DBPASSWORD
            Report DB Password
  --add
            Add the new user
  --delete
            Delete the user
  --modify
            Set a new password
----

== Database Schema

The schema export the most important tables from the main {productname} Database as a de-normalized variant containing only data which are relevant for a report.

> A ready-to-use report can be provided with views doing joins over multiple tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ready-to-use reports are provided with views doing joins over multiple tables.
```

> Every table gets an extra column for the {productname} server id of server which provide the data `mgm_id`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every table gets an extra id column (`mgm_id`) for the {productname} server which provided the data. 
```

> On a single {productname} Server this column has the standard value 1 which represent "localhost". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a single {productname} Server this column has the standard value `1` which represent "localhost". 
```

[[lsd-hub-reporting]]
= Hub Reporting

> The Hub prepares and provides content for multiple peripheral {productname} Servers. The goal is now to get data from these Servers back and have combined reporting data available on the Hub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Hub prepares and provides content for multiple peripheral {productname} Servers. The goal of the reporting feature is to get data from these Servers back and have combined reporting data available on the Hub.
```

> The data are made available for external Reporting Tools.

Reviewer 3: The data is

- the DB in {productname} Hub stores also its own data from the systems directly connected and managed by the Hub,
- the DB in peripheral {productname} Server stores its own data,
- the reporting tool can be connected either to the Hub or to any {productname} Server.

== Setup
The reporting database and schema are setup by default using the local postgresql server.
The reporting database is a separate database accessible via the network.

=== Create a DB user for the reporting

Before connecting an external Reporting Tools to the Database, a user with read-only permission should be created.
For doing that, it is possible to use ``uyuni-setup-reportdb-user`` .

----
usage: uyuni-setup-reportdb-user [options]

options:
  --help 
            show this help message and exit
  --non-interactive
            Switches to non-interactive mode
  --dbuser=DBUSER
            Report DB User
  --dbpassword=DBPASSWORD
            Report DB Password
  --add
            Add the new user
  --delete
            Delete the user
  --modify
            Set a new password
----

== Database Schema

> The schema export the most important tables from the main {productname} Database as a de-normalized variant containing only data which are relevant for a report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The schema exports the most important tables from the main {productname} Database as a de-normalized variant containing only data which are relevant for a report.
```

> A ready-to-use reports are provided with views doing joins over multiple tables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ready-to-use reports are provided as views, aggregating data over multiple tables.
```

> Every table gets an extra id column (`mgm_id`) for the {productname} server which provided the data. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every table gets an extra id column (`mgm_id`) specifying the {productname} server which provided the data. 
```

On a single {productname} Server this column has the standard value `1` which represent "localhost". 
On the {productname} Hub it is replaced with the real server id the managed server has in the hub database.

> The `synced_date` represent the time when the data were exported from the main {productname} Server database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another common additional field is `synced_date`, which represent the time when the data were exported from the main {productname} Server database.
```
